---
layout: docs
title: "Boson Protocol: Docs: Governance"
short_title: "Governance"
permalink: /governance/
---

# Governance

Boson’s mission is to create the foundational infrastructure for the emerging
decentralized commerce ecosystem, empowering builders and partners to reinvent
commercial exchange as we know it.

## A protocol to democratize commerce

Building Web3 permissionless technology is important, but will not be sufficient
enough to create a new ecosystem. Community participation and governance will be
crucial in achieving Boson’s mission. When it comes to the governance of the
protocol, the long-term vision is very clear: we aim to be a protocol that will
be capture-resistant, resistant from centralized, extractive entities in
commerce and its supply chain.

Boson Protocol’s vision is to enable a decentralized commerce ecosystem by
funding and enabling the development of a stack of specialized applications to
disrupt, demonopolize and democratize commerce - and we want the community to
have a say in it.

## Progressive decentralization

We are going to achieve this mission by building Boson protocol as a
decentralized system enabling design practices that prevent the value capture we
want to overcome.

The Boson governance is going to be implemented and modelled across the three
phases of start-up, scale-up and DAO. Progressively, it will enable the fair and
equitable distribution of ownership, value and control. With decentralization,
increased community ownership and operation will be introduced.

We believe progressive decentralization is the most pragmatic and long-term
sustainable strategy, as it allows us to find protocol-market fit, design for
equitable value distribution and sustainable value capture. Furthermore, it
allows us to avoid the current uncertainty of the technical, business, legal,
and social reality that surrounds us. Regardless of, or precisely because of it,
we need to be clear about our vision brought to light by the Boson Protocol’s
founders which will become a reality through the Protocol’s core community that
will expand and will ultimately be governed by the crowd.

## The dCommerce DAO

The long-term goal for Boson Protocol is to be governed by its community.
Through the dCommerce DAO, the community will decide which projects to fund and
what applications to build. The dCommerce DAO will fund projects which build
core Boson Protocol software, applications, tools and integrations, as well the
growth of the ecosystem via supply, demand and developer initiatives. To
kick-start this dCommerce stack Boson is developing a library of developer tools
and a number of reference applications. The first step is to ensure that the
code and technical specifications for the protocol are available, here on
GitHub. We are trying to make it as easy for you as possible to join us in
building this ecosystem and help you understand and use Boson Protocol. This
currently consists of a reference P2P app and accompanying documentation.

## Alignment of the on-chain and off-chain governance

When it comes to governance, our goal is to have both, on-chain and off-chain
governance aligned, especially in the most significant matters like voting. We
are making sure, through progressive decentralization to be transparent and
include the community in the decision-making process. Since we have started
building on Ethereum, the governance process linked to layer 1 will be based on
Ethereum. The 2+ year plan is to potentially explore other blockchain networks
and the long-term goal is for Boson Protocol to be generally interoperable.

The alignment of on-chain and off-chain governance is important when it comes to
the core of Boson Protocol’s functionality; enabling smart contracts to perform
on-chain financial transfers coordinated with the off-chain, often physical,
delivery of goods and services.

## How are we going to achieve it?

The process we are in right now is the vision transfer process, where the
founders are transferring their vision of the Protocol to the core community. We
have begun the realization process with several iterations in tandem with the
progressive involvement of the community. We aim for the technical and the
governance basis of the Protocol allowing as much community involvement as
possible for them to join the co-creation and decentralized transformation of
the Boson Protocol’s reality.

## Open dialogue

All of our repositories default to open for issues and pull requests. In the
near further, we're going to have regular community calls to talk about our
roadmaps and future work. You can join our developer community on
[Gitter](https://gitter.im/BosonProtocol/community) and find out more about how
to contribute, including our process for pull request approvals and our
[Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bosonprotocol/docs/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
[here](https://github.com/bosonprotocol/docs).
